Add CONTRIBUTING.md template file (#34)
meilisearch/integration-guides: templates/CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing

---

COMMENT TO REMOVE

> Be aware of XXX in sentences and links: they need to be replaced by the name of the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be aware of XXX in sentences and links: they need to be replaced by the name of the actual repository.
```

---

> First, thank you for contributing to MeiliSearch! The goal of this document is to provide everything you need to start contributing to MeiliSearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, thank you for contributing to MeiliSearch! The goal of this document is to provide everything you need to know in order to contribute to MeiliSearch and its different integrations.
```

<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" style="ordered" indent="   " -->

- [Assumptions](#assumptions)
- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)
- [Git Guidelines](#git-guidelines)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## Assumptions

1. **You're familiar with [GitHub](https://github.com) and the [Pull Request](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests)(PR) workflow.**

> 2. **You've read the MeiliSearch [docs](https://docs.meilisearch.com) and the [README](/README.md).**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **You've read the MeiliSearch [documentation](https://docs.meilisearch.com) and the [README](/README.md).**
```

Which README are you referring to? Meilisearch/meilisearch or the README of the project they are planning to contribute to?

Author: It will be the readme of the SDK repo

## Development Workflow

---

COMMENT TO REMOVE

This section should be filled according to the repository and should contain:
- A "Setup" section (if needed) with the command to install the dependencies for the contributor (e.g.: `yarn --dev`).
- A "Tests and Linter" section with the command to run the tests, the linter and the linter-autofix (if possible).
- A "Release Process" section that describes the process before publishing a new release.
- Other useful tips/steps for the contributor (e.g.: how to build, how to debug).

/!\ The following lines are just a template example and should be completed with right names and right commands

---

### Setup

```bash
$ <Add the right command here>
```

### Tests and Linter

Each PR should pass the tests and the linter to be accepted.

```bash
# Tests
$ <Add Docker command to run MeiliSearch here>
$ <Add the right command here>
# Linter
$ <Add the right command here>
# Linter with fixing
$ <Add the right command here>
```

### Release Process

MeiliSearch tools follow the [Semantic Versioning Convention](https://semver.org/).

#### Automated Changelogs

> For each PR merged on `master`, a GitHub Action is running and updates the next release description as a draft release in the [GitHub interface](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases). If you don't have the right access to this repository, you will not be able to see the draft release until the release is published.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each PR merged on `master`, a GitHub Action is running and updates the next release description as a draft release in the [GitHub interface](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases). If you don't have write access to this repository, you will not be able to see the draft release until the release is published.
```

Author: Not sure the write access are needed to see the draft release... Read access would be enough but I don't know.
I would say "les bons accès".

The draft release description is therefore generated and corresponds to all the PRs titles since the previous release. This means each PR should only do one change and the title should be desriptive of this change.

About this automation:
- As the draft release description is generated on every push on `master`, don't change it manually until the final release publishment.

> - If you don't want a PR to appear in the release changelogs: set the label `skip-changelog`. We used to remove PRs updating the README or the CI (except for big changes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you don't want a PR to appear in the release changelogs: add the label `skip-changelog`. We suggest removing PRs updating the README or the CI (except for big changes).
```

> - If the changes you are doing in the PR are breaking: set the label `breaking-change`. In the release tag, the minor will be increased instead of the patch. The major will never be changed until [MeiliSearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch) is stable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the changes you are doing in the PR are breaking: add the label `breaking-change`. In the release tag, the minor will be increased instead of the patch. The major will never be changed until [MeiliSearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch) is stable.
```

> - If the changes you are doing in the PR are breaking: add the label `breaking-change`. In the release tag, the minor will be increased instead of the patch. The major will never be changed until [MeiliSearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch) is stable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If the changes you are doing in the PR are breaking: add the label `breaking-change`. In the release version, the minor will be increased instead of the patch. The major will never be changed until [MeiliSearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch) is stable.
```

- If you did any mistake, for example the PR is already closed but you forgot to add a label or you misnamed your PR, don't panic: change what you want in the closed PR and run the job again.

*More information about [release drafter](https://github.com/release-drafter/release-drafter), used to automate these steps.*

#### How to Publish the Release

> You must do a PR modifying the file `[<Add file name here>]`(\<Add relative path to the file here\>) with the right version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Make a PR modifying the file `[<Add file name here>]`(\<Add relative path to the file here\>) with the right version.
```
less aggresive

```<Add the language here>
<Add the line to change, e.g.: "version": X.X.X>
```

Once the changes are merged on `master`, you can publish the current draft release via the [GitHub interface](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases).

A GitHub Action will be triggered and push the package on [\<Add the platform name here, e.g. npm>](\<Add URL to the platform here\>).

## Git Guidelines

### Git Branches

All changes must be made in a branch and submitted as PR.
We do not enforce any branch naming style, but please use something descriptive of your changes.

### Git Commits

As minimal requirements, your commit message should:
- be capitalized
- not finish by a dot or any other punctuation character (!,?)

> - start with a verb so that we can read your commit message this way: "This commmit will ..." where "..." is the commit message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- start with a verb so that we can read your commit message this way: "This commmit will ...", where "..." is the commit message.
```

> As minimal requirements, your commit message should be:
> - to be capitalized
> - not to finish by a dot or any other punctuation character (!,?)
> - to start with a verb so that we can read your commit message this way: "This commmit will ..." where "..." is the commit message.
>   e.g.: "Fix the home page button" or "Add more tests for create_index method"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As minimal requirements, your commit message should:
- be capitalized
- not finish by a dot or any other punctuation character (!,?)
- start with a verb so that we can read your commit message this way: "This commmit will ..." where "..." is the commit message.
  e.g.: "Fix the home page button" or "Add more tests for create_index method"
```

We don't follow any other convention, but if you want to use one, we recommend [this one](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/).

### GitHub Pull Requests

> Some points about GitHub PR:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some notes on GitHub PRs:
```

Some points about GitHub PR:

> - [Convert your PR as a draft](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request) if your changes are a work in progress: no one will review it until you pass your PR as ready for review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Convert your PR as a draft](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request) if your changes are a work in progress: no one will review it until you pass your PR as ready for review.
The draft PR can be very useful if you want to show that you are working on something and make your work visible.
```

Author: ```suggestion
- [Convert your PR as a draft](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request) if your changes are a work in progress: no one will review it until you pass your PR as ready for review.<br>
  The draft PR can be very useful if you want to show that you are working on something and make your work visible.
```

- The branch related to the PR must be **up-to-date with `master`** before merging.

> - All PRs must be reviewed and approved by at least one member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All PRs must be reviewed and approved by at least one maintainer.
```

- All PRs have to be **squashed and merged**.
- The PR title should be accurate and descriptive of the changes. The title of the PR will be indeed automatically added to the next [release changlogs](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases/).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thank you again for reading this through, we can not wait to begin to work with you if you made your way through this contributing guide ❤️ 
```

# Contributing

---

COMMENT TO REMOVE

Be aware of XXX in sentences and links: they need to be replaced by the name of the actual repository.

---

First of all, thank you for contributing to MeiliSearch! The goal of this document is to provide everything you need to know in order to contribute to MeiliSearch and its different integrations.

<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" style="ordered" indent="   " -->

- [Assumptions](#assumptions)
- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)
- [Git Guidelines](#git-guidelines)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

## Assumptions

1. **You're familiar with [GitHub](https://github.com) and the [Pull Request](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests)(PR) workflow.**
2. **You've read the MeiliSearch [documentation](https://docs.meilisearch.com) and the [README](/README.md).**
3. **You know about the [MeiliSearch community](https://docs.meilisearch.com/resources/contact.html). Please use this for help.**

## How to Contribute

> 1. Ensure your change has an issue! Find an [existing issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/issues/) or [open a new issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/issues/new). This is where you can get a feel if the change will be accepted or not.

Reviewer 2: I don't really like the "This is where you can get a feel if the change will be accepted or not" because not only is not really encouraging to contribute, but also because I don't understand why this would give her/him a feeling about if it will be accepted :) Just my POV

> 2. Once approved, [fork the XXX repository](https://help.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo) in your own GitHub account.

Reviewer 2: What's does it means exactly "approved"? Sorry, it isn't clear for me (so I guess to contributors that could be the case too). Maybe we can explain this a little bit, because there is nothing like an "intuitive" way of an issue getting "approved".

Author: I think @erlend-sh meant "the issue is approved to be implemented by a maintainer". It was clear for me, but maybe not for you @bidoubiwa @tpayet?

Reviewer 2: Even if that seems clear, we never mentioned anywhere any process for 'reviewing' or 'approving' an issue. If we want that (I am not even sure that's necessary) we may be more explicit about it. Someone can for example fix an issue for himself/herself, then make a PR as a proposition (like in some 'this is my fix, take it if you want') and wont be waiting for an approval to make a fix. Is this the workflow we want?

Author: > we never mentioned anywhere any process for 'reviewing' or 'approving' an issue

What do you mean by anywhere?
If you mean in the SDK repositories, this file will be the actual place where the user can refer.
If you talk about our internal process, we are already working with issue approval (in integration-guides or during our meetings).

> Someone can for example fix an issue for himself/herself, then make a PR as a proposition

So, if I understand well, you disagree with the process "having an issue to do a PR", I mean the first point of the process: "Make sure that the contribution you want to make is explained or detailed in a GitHub issue! Find an [existing issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/issues/) or [open a new one](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/issues/new)."

I think the way "Issues->PR" is better than just "Nothing->PR" out of nowhere. At least in the process that we chose to publicly write down. But, of course, if a contributor does a PR directly, we are not going to ignore the PR.
**I just want our public and official process to be a common and clear process widely used in the OS community, even if everyone is not going to follow it** 🙂

What do you think @bidoubiwa @tpayet about having "Issue->PR" or "PR directly" in our official process?

Reviewer: In official process Issue->PR since we do want to encourage good practices and visibility around the work that is being done and as you said it, everyone is not going to follow it :)

Reviewer 2: > So, if I understand well, you disagree with the process "having an issue to do a PR"

You can totally do an Issue and a PR without having the approval for the issue. So no, this is not the same thing. I do not disagree with the idea of Requiring an Issue for a PR at all!

> What do you mean by anywhere?

I mean 'Anywhere' in the same guide. We are talking about an approval without saying what it is, where it comes from, or how you get it, or anything else about it, so I just prefer to make it clear

Author: Hum maybe I miss-understood your last comment 🤔 What you meant is to remove the "Once approved" part for an issue, right?

Again, it's our official process on the official place, so it's ok from my POV if we let the "Once approved": of course the user does not need to necessarily follow it. He/she indeed can suggest the PR if it's already done, not need to wait.
But if you think guys it's too confusing, I'm not against to remove it either.

3. [Create a new Git branch](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-and-deleting-branches-within-your-repository).
4. Review the [Development Workflow](#workflow) section that describes the steps to maintain the repository.
5. Make your changes.

> 6. [Submit the branch as a PR](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) pointing to the `master` branch of the main XXX repo. A team member should comment and/or review your Pull Request with a few days. Although, depending on the circumstances, it may take longer.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. [Submit the branch as a PR](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) pointing to the `master` branch of the main XXX repo. A team member or a repository maintainer should comment and/or review your Pull Request within a few days. Although, depending on the circumstances, it may take longer.<br>
```

Author: ```suggestion
6. [Submit the branch as a PR](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) pointing to the `master` branch of the main XXX repo. A maintainer should comment and/or review your Pull Request within a few days. Although depending on the circumstances, it may take longer.<br>
```

Author: I would rather keep this kind of sentence simple and your changes make the sentence "heavier" from my POV, but I keep your "maintainer" wording to stay consistent 🙂

>    About the PR title, we do not adopt any type of  naming style, but **please use something descriptive of your changes**. The title of the PR will be indeed automatically added to the next [release changlogs](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 We do not enforce a naming convention for the PRs, but **please use something descriptive of your changes**, having in mind that the title of your PR will be automatically added to the next [release changlogs](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases/).
```

## Development Workflow

---

COMMENT TO REMOVE

This section should be filled according to the repository and should contain:
- A "Setup" section (if needed) with the command to install the dependencies for the contributor (e.g.: `yarn --dev`).
- A "Tests and Linter" section with the command to run the tests, the linter and the linter-autofix (if possible).
- A "Release Process" section that describes the process before publishing a new release.
- Other useful tips/steps for the contributor (e.g.: how to build, how to debug).

/!\ The following lines are just a template example and should be completed with right names and right commands

---

### Setup

```bash
$ <Add the right command here>
```

### Tests and Linter

Each PR should pass the tests and the linter to be accepted.

```bash
# Tests
$ <Add Docker command to run MeiliSearch here>
$ <Add the right command here>
# Linter
$ <Add the right command here>
# Linter with fixing
$ <Add the right command here>
```

### Release Process

MeiliSearch tools follow the [Semantic Versioning Convention](https://semver.org/).

> #### Automatiazed Changelogs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Automated Changelogs
```

Author: I know there is a typo in my title, but why do you want to replace all my "automatize" by "automate"? Are you sure that "to automate" is better than "to automatize"?
- [automatization](https://www.wordreference.com/enfr/automatization)
- [automation](https://www.wordreference.com/enfr/automation)

Reviewer 2: I do want to change from 'automatization' to 'automation' because I don't think that is the more idiomatic way to say it, even if it isn't technically wrong. I also fount this: https://wikidiff.com/automation/automatization

If you prefer to keep it I won't be opposed, it's a suggestion :)

Reviewer 4: ‘Automate’ is definitely much more common in English 🙂

Author: > If you prefer to keep it I won't be opposed, it's a suggestion :)

No no, I join your POV guys 🙂 I just wanted to be sure: I'm trying to improve my English every day and this one lets me confused, because I cannot guess (yet) what is more common to use in English 😅

Reviewer 2: Maybe it seems more 'familiar' to you because it is closer to the same word in french "automatiser" (I had the same problem with spanish "automatizar") so it always feels counter-intuitive :)

> For each PR merged on `master`, a GitHub Action is running and updates the next release description as a draft release in the [GitHub interface](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases). If you don't have the permission to this repository, you will not be able to see the draft release until the release will be published.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each PR merged on `master`, a GitHub Action is running and updates the next release description as a draft release in the [GitHub interface](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases). If you don't have the permission to this repository, you will not be able to see the draft release until the release is published.
```

Author: For each PR merged on `master`, a GitHub Action is running and updates the next release description as a draft release in the [GitHub interface](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases). If you don't have the right access to this repository, you will not be able to see the draft release until the release will be published.

Reviewer 2: Maybe `write access`?

The draft release description is therefore generated and corresponds to all the PRs titles since the previous release. This means each PR should only do one change and the title should be desriptive of this change.

> Some points about this automatization:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
About this automation:
```

- As the draft release description is generated on every push on `master`, don't change it manually until the final release publishment.
- If you don't want a PR to appear in the release changelogs: set the label `skip-changelog`. We used to remove PRs updating the README or the CI (except for big changes).
- If the changes you are doing in the PR are breaking: set the label `breaking-change`. In the release tag, the minor will be increased instead of the patch. The major will never be changed until [MeiliSearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch) is stable.

> - If you did any mistake, for example the PR is already closed but you forgot to add a label or you bad-named the title of your PR, don't panic: change what you want in the closed PR and run the job again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you did any mistake, for example the PR is already closed but you forgot to add a label or you misnamed your PR, don't panic: change what you want in the closed PR and run the job again.
```

> *More information about [release drafter](https://github.com/release-drafter/release-drafter) we use to automatize these steps.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*More information about [release drafter](https://github.com/release-drafter/release-drafter), used to automate these steps.*
```

#### How to Publish the Release

You must do a PR modifying the file `[<Add file name here>]`(\<Add relative path to the file here\>) with the right version.

```<Add the language here>
<Add the line to change, e.g.: "version": X.X.X>
```

Once the changes are merged on `master`, you can publish the current draft release via the [GitHub interface](https://github.com/meilisearch/XXX/releases).

A GitHub Action will be triggered and push the package on [\<Add the platform name here, e.g. npm>](\<Add URL to the platform here\>).

## Git Guidelines

### Git Branches

All changes must be made in a branch and submitted as PR.

> We do not adopt any type of branch naming style, but please use something descriptive of your changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We do not enforce any branch naming style, but please use something descriptive of your changes.
```

### Git Commits

> As a minimal requirement, we ask the commit message:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As minimal requirements, your commit message should be:
```
